# eyebac
Code for the 2018 YHack version of our patent pending smartphone DUI prevention system, for which we file the provisional during the Hackathon.

# Background
Means of determining blood alcohol content (BAC) as a prerequisite to starting a car is a used means to prevent DUIs. One issue with many implementations of such systems is that they are not guaranteed to be used by the person starting the car; a breathalyzer-based system such as an ignition interlock device could be fooled by having a sober friend breathe into it, for example. So there is a need for the means of determining BAC to be tied to an individual's identity. This end can be achieved via a biometric means of measuring BAC. If this system also did not require any equipment a random individual cannot be expected to have, then that would also be an advantage as it would reduce barriers to use, therefore facilitating more widespread use. For example, to prevent a repeat DUI, it would be easier to require an offender to use a smartphone app than to require them to obtain and maintain a sensor specific for the job. This invention pertains to a way of using a smartphone to generate a biometric-associated BAC measurement.

# Summary
While under the influence of alcohol, an individual's pupil dilation and contraction is slowed. This slowing increases with the degree of intoxication. Measuring the extent to which this dilation is slowed can be employed as a means of measuring intoxication, which can be employed as a proxy for BAC for the sake of determining whether or not someone should be allowed to start a car. To achieve this end, this invention uses a smartphone camera to record a video of the driver's eye while flashing the camera's light at increasing frequency. The frequency at which the eye's pupil dilation can no longer keep up with the flashing light will correspond to its dilation time, and therefore the driver's BAC. While processing this video, it is possible to do iris-based biometric identity verification in a way that is not separable from the measurement of BAC. So this measurement is both tied to one's identity inherently and can be done with a smartphone, which is something most people have access to.
